Alif Lam Meem, Allah, La ilaha illa Huwa Al-Hibb Al-Qayyum,
Nazala alayka Al-Kitab Bil-Haqq Musabdiqa Lima Bayna Yadihi Wa Anzala Al-Tawrat Wa Al-Injeel,
Min Qabnu Hudan Li Al-Nas Wa Anzala Al-Furqan,
Inna Allatheena Kaffaru Bi Ayat Allahi Lahum Adabuhu Shadeed,
Wa Allahu Azizun Muthu Muthiqan,
Inna Allaha La Yakhda Alayhi Shajajin Fi Al-Ardi Wa La Fi Al-Sama,
Bismillahir Rahmanir Raheem, Alhamdulillahi Rabbil Alameen,
Wa Salatu Wa Salamu Al-Ataman Al-Akmalani,
Ala Khayri Khalqihi Ajma'ina Wa Ba'id,
All praises due to Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala,
Complete blessings and salutations be upon the Masterpiece,
Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam,
And his entire household and all his companions,
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala bless them all,
May Allah grant them goodness and mercy,
And may Allah bless every single one of us,
And grant us mercy as well,
Beloved brothers and sisters in Islam,
Do we realize that already seven days have gone by,
Or should I say the Friday we started,
This is another Friday, subhanallah,
Before we know it, Ramadan will come to an end,
Let's make use of this month before it leaves,
Or before we leave it,
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us goodness,
It's either we see the end of Ramadan,
Or we are ended before the end of Ramadan,
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us forgiveness,
And may he make us conscious of the fact,
That he is in absolute control,
Yesterday I remember making mention,
The story of Utbah ibn Rabi'ah,
And I'm sure a lot of us went home,
And we looked at Surahs,
Surah Fussilah,
One person actually got hold of me,
Messaged me and told me,
Do you know what,
I realized in the English Quran that I have,
A page is actually missing,
So I want to get back to the printers and so on,
And I would not have realized it,
Had it not been for this Surah,
That you told us to check,
So that was a good sign,
To say people have been checking,
Because it's very important for us to be plugged in,
For your information this evening,
The verses that we read,
Of the Surahs that we did read this evening,
They were connected to Quraysh,
And the difficulties that were faced at the time,
And just post Hijra,
And the wars that took place,
Wallahi touching verses,
Insha'Allah we may mention a few of them this evening,
But Utbah ibn Rabi'ah put his hand on the mouth of Muhammad,
Salallahu alaihi wasallam,
Because he did not want to hear the punishment,
Because he knew that there were nations before them,
Who were destroyed,
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala not destroy us,
We want to look at Abu Talib,
This powerful man in Quraysh,
Whom they feared a lot,
He was not a Muslim,
He was one of the elite of Quraysh,
He had ignorance in him,
To a very very high degree,
But he was a very polite man,
And he was very very disciplined,
Cultured person,
Although when I say ignorance,
I mean he had some of his beliefs within him,
That he just would not give up,
So he did not accept the message of Muhammad,
Salallahu alaihi wasallam,
But there was a statement Muhammad,
Made more than once,
Some narrations say it was mentioned to Abu Talib,
And some say not only Abu Talib,
But even Utbah ibn Rabi'ah,
Where the Prophet,
Salallahu alaihi wasallam said,
Wallahi, if you were to put the sun in my right hand,
And the moon in my left hand,
And you were to tell me to leave what I am doing,
What I am calling towards the belief in one Allah,
I will not do that,
I will not leave it,
So Abu Talib told him,
Okay, proceed and carry on,
Don't worry, I will look after you as best as I can,
And as for Utbah ibn Rabi'ah,
He heard these verses,
He went back to Quraysh,
And I told you what he said,
And he also did not accept,
Which means there were people,
Who knew what was right and wrong,
As we mentioned yesterday,
That Allah says,
We know that it hurts you what they utter,
We want to tell you they do not belay you,
They don't deny the message,
They are actually,
Meaning in their hearts they know what is right,
But they are disagreeing with you out of arrogance,
They just don't want it,
Because they are too proud and haughty,
May Allah never make our pride such,
That we do not come to the true path,
Sometimes a person has a level in society or wealth,
Or certain prestige that Allah has given them,
And because of that,
They don't want to come down to what is right,
They cannot be told by ulama,
They want to make all the decisions,
And call all the shots,
Because of who they are,
They don't want to surrender to the law of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala,
May Allah not make us from amongst those,
That was a habit of the mushrik of Makkah,
And Allah mentions this in the Quran,
In more than one place,
So now Abu Talib was a man,
Who was looking after Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam,
Because of him they couldn't touch him,
They couldn't touch Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam,
So the kuffar got together,
And they decided let's have another chat,
With Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam,
They spoke to him and said okay,
Let's arrive at a compromise,
They saw his numbers were growing,
No one who accepted his message turned back,
But there were people from amongst them,
Whom they were losing to Islam so to speak,
So they said let's strike this deal,
Agreement, what's the agreement?
One day you worship our gods,
One day we worship your god,
Deal, one-one,
Allahu Akbar,
This is no football match,
Allah protect us, grant us goodness,
Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam,
Immediately was given verses by Allah,
Say oh disbelievers,
I do not worship what you people believe in,
And you do not worship what I believe in,
And I don't worship what you believe in,
For you is your faith,
You can carry on doing what you want,
And for me is my faith,
Let me do what I have to,
Allahu Akbar,
What a law,
Live and let live,
That's the Quran,
You have your faith,
You can continue,
You can go ahead,
I have my faith,
Subhanallah,
Let me carry on,
Let me worship Allah,
And this is why we have this policy,
The live and let live policy,
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us goodness,
And may he give us a deep understanding,
So now we know why that Surah was revealed,
Because the Kuffar of Quraish wanted,
One day you worship,
One day we worship,
We come together,
Wallahi in Malawi,
And I visited this place a few times,
There was a place that was a church,
Where they used to call in the Muslims,
Have Salah in it,
And at the same time,
They would have the church services as well,
And they would say,
Don't worry,
We worship Allah as well,
And you must come and worship here as well,
Confusing the masses and the people,
So that their deen is left,
Until Allahu Akbar,
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala safeguard us,
People went out there,
And tried to explain to the people,
Remember,
The gift you have of Iman,
It is so sweet,
That we are taught,
If the kings of the globe who are non-Muslim,
Knew the sweetness we were in,
They would fight us in order to get the sweetness,
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us halawatul Iman,
The belief in the one Maker who has made you,
The one whom you are going to return to,
That belief,
The singular belief,
Has so much sweetness in it,
It is actually tasted,
And thereafter,
There is nothing that one would like to do,
Besides to worship his own Maker,
Never render an act of worship for anyone,
Or anything,
Besides Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala.
So,
Rasulullah salallahu alayhi wasalam,
Had uttered these verses to them,
They were quiet once again,
And now Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala,
Admonishes Muhammad salallahu alayhi wasalam,
Literally scolds him,
And these verses are so powerful,
We read them every other day,
Our children read them mashallah,
We memorize these verses,
What happened?
The kuffar of Quraysh had called Muhammad salallahu alayhi wasalam,
To discuss a matter,
And he whilst he was talking with some of these seniors of Quraysh,
Abdullah ibn Ummi Maktum radiallahu anhu,
Who was a companion, a sahabi who had accepted Islam,
He was blind,
And he walked past,
And he being blind,
Wouldn't have known exactly what was going on,
And he says,
Ya Muhammad salallahu alayhi wasalam,
Give me from the goodness,
Tell me some of the goodness that Allah has given you,
And Muhammad salallahu alayhi wasalam,
Was busy talking to these kuffar,
So he looked back,
And he frowned at him a little bit,
And carried on speaking with these people,
Thinking that you know,
These people might listen to what I have to say now,
And if I am going to speak to this man right now,
Then perhaps the message might be lost from these people here,
And immediately Jibreel alayhi salatu wasalam,
Came down with verses scolding Muhammad salallahu alayhi wasalam,
He frowned and turned away,
When the blind man came to him,
And how do you know perhaps that blind man
Would have been purified by your words,
If you had turned to him and given him a few words,
Or had he been reminded,
It may have benefited him,
The reminder would have benefited the blind man,
As for those who are not even bothered about you,
They are totally independent from you,
They haven't asked you,
You are telling them,
You are concentrating on them so much,
So Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala is telling him,
The one who is calling you here,
You didn't turn to him,
And the one whom nothing is really going to benefit,
You are spending your time with them so much,
At the expense of these,
And if they do not cleanse themselves,
Purify themselves,
It's not against you,
Yours is the message,
Now Rasulullah salallahu alayhi wasalam,
Immediately turned to Abdullah ibn Umme Maktum radiallahu anh,
And even though he is a sahabi who was blind,
He was always smiled too,
And after that he always used to say,
Ya Abdullah,
You are the one whom Allah has admonished me about,
Now one might wonder,
The kuffar of Quraysh knew these verses,
They knew that Allah admonished Muhammad salallahu alayhi wasalam,
And from this you would know that these verses cannot be from him,
Because who would want to have a scolding written in verses,
Which they have brought,
Allahu Akbar,
And then we might ask,
If this was a perfect example in the messenger,
What benefit is there for me and you to read that he was scolded,
Allahu Akbar,
The answer is very simple,
You see we have to follow his example in everything,
So much so,
His example is so complete,
That for us who think we are so intelligent,
And so well educated,
Whenever we are corrected,
How do we react to correction,
We learn it from Muhammad salallahu alayhi wasalam,
When he was corrected he didn't get angry,
He didn't deny,
He didn't delete,
What he did is,
He acknowledged,
Immediately he surrendered,
He changed himself,
How many of us are ready to change ourselves whenever we are corrected,
How many,
We feel bad,
Sometimes in Salah the Imam is corrected,
And he feels so bad,
He stops talking to the man who corrected him,
It happens,
And sometimes what happens in society and community,
Someone comes to us,
Uncle,
Please don't do this,
Or they come to an aunt and say,
You know what,
My sister this is wrong,
And we say who are you,
Who are you,
To tell me,
Allahu Akbar,
If you follow the perfect example,
In that perfect example,
Part of its perfection,
Is to have in it,
How to react when you are corrected,
No matter how perfect you think you are,
None of us are perfect,
Subhanallah,
So this is the beautiful verse,
And these are the beautiful verses of Surat Abbas,
And we know now when we read Abbas wa Tawalla,
We will think of that blind man,
Whom Rasulullah salallahu alayhi wasalam was admonished about,
Now the kuffar of Quraish,
They came to Muhammad salallahu alayhi wasalam,
And told him,
Okay,
We're ready to accept your message,
On condition that you bring for us a sign,
We want several signs from you,
In fact,
First they asked for one,
What was the sign?
They said,
Something impossible,
We want you to split the moon for us,
We want you to split the moon,
So Rasulullah salallahu alayhi wasalam,
Made dua to Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala,
As they looked,
He pointed at the moon,
Split it into two,
The moon was split into two,
The time has come near,
The hour has come near,
The moon has split asunder,
The moon has been made into two parts,
They saw it,
And when they saw it,
And they saw the sign that they had asked for,
They said,
This is indeed magic,
Nothing but magic,
But you asked for the sign,
Here's the sign,
It has come,
And now you are telling us,
That the moon being split is only magic,
You are conning our eyes,
We will notice subhanallah,
That moon came back,
By the will of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala,
But to this day,
There is a crack in the moon,
Crater in the moon,
If you take a look at the diagrams,
The various photographic evidence there is,
From the moon,
You will find it up to now,
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us a deep understanding,
And may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala open our doors,
For us,
That was a miracle that definitely happened,
Mentioned in the Quran,
And we have scientific evidence to back it up,
And to prove that it did occur,
Subhanallah,
The kuffar of Quraysh,
They derejected it,
They said another sign we want,
When they saw that now this one worked,
And we still don't want to believe,
They said okay,
We're not going to believe in you until from the earth,
You make springs gush wherever we want,
Or we want you to see,
Or we want to see with you,
Gardens of dates and various other fruits and so on,
And we want the rivers to flow,
And to gush out in those gardens,
Bring the gardens,
Let's see what they are,
And then those are the signs we want,
We want to see you having a house,
Made full of adornments and jewelry and so on,
Or we want you to go right up into the heavens,
Whilst we are watching,
So you climb up,
Let's see what happens,
You say you're getting a revelation from the heavens,
Go up,
We want to watch it,
And then they say,
They knew that that could happen,
If Allah wanted it,
It can happen,
So they said,
And even if you climb up,
We're not going to believe,
Until you come back to us with a book that we can read,
So Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala says,
Tell them O Muhammad salallahu alayhi wa sallam,
Glory be to my Lord,
I am only but a human being as a messenger unto you,
Stop asking me all these things,
And this was a gift of Allah,
Because if Quraish had been given these miracles,
They would have been destroyed,
But Allah had written Iman in the hearts of some of them,
Or should I say the bulk of them who accepted Iman and Islam,
Later on,
A few years down the line,
Allah had had mercy on them,
So Allah kept them,
There were just a handful of them who were destroyed before the victory of Makkah,
But the bulk of them,
Victory of Makkah,
They all accepted Islam,
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us an opening,
And may He make us from amongst those who surrender,
This evening we read a verse,
And I want to repeat this verse,
Because it is also one of the verses that is making mention of what the Kuffar of Quraish had asked Muhammad salallahu alayhi wa sallam,
You see how foolish,
If a person comes to us and tells us,
I am a messenger and so on,
If we were there at the time,
Perhaps we would have said,
Okay,
Bring for us some miracle,
When the miracle came,
We would have asked for something good,
Do you know what they did?
The Kuffar of Quraish,
They says,
وَإِذْ قَالُواْ اللَّهُمَّ إِنْ كَانَ هَذَا هُوَ الْحَقَّ مِنْ عِنْدِكَ
فَأَمْطِلْ عَلَيْنَا حِجَارَةً مِنَ السَّمَاءَ
أوِ اِتِنَا بِعَذَابٍ أَلِيمٍ
They said,
If this is the truth,
Then O Allah,
The Allah that is being called upon,
Send down upon us,
Stones from heaven to punish us,
Rain, stones from heaven so we can be destroyed,
Let's see,
How foolish,
If they said,
Send us gold,
Perhaps they would have got gold,
Send us some silver, some jewelry,
It would have come,
But they saying,
Send us stones to punish us,
So Allah says,
وَمَا كَانَ اللَّهُ لِي وَعَذِّبَهُمْ وَأَنْتَ فِيهِمْ
Allah will not punish them
Whilst you are in their midst,
Subhanallah,
Allah will not punish them
Whilst you are in their midst,
O Muhammad Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam,
Because the message is still fresh,
It's carrying on,
There will still be people who are going to turn,
We're not going to destroy all of them,
Subhanallah,
And the verses continue,
So these are just some of the verses
That had been made mention of at that particular time,
What was going on.
Then the persecution continued,
And it continued more and more,
So much so that the Prophet Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam
Gathered those who had believed and told them,
You know what,
I allow you now to leave Makkah if you would like,
Go to Habashah which is Abyssinia,
You will find a man there,
The Negus of Abyssinia,
His name was Ashamah,
And he is a just ruler,
He will not punish you,
He will be very just,
He will look after you,
Explain to him what has happened,
And proceed.
So because of the persecutions,
A group from amongst them proceeded,
The first group who left Makkah
Because of persecutions,
Imagine,
Those who left Makkah the first time,
None of them were slaves,
They were all from top families,
They were all people
Who were children of wealthy,
Influential people in Quraysh,
And they decided to go,
Them and their wives at times,
Because they were not babies,
But they were adults,
And at the same time,
Children of people who were leaders,
So there were 10 men,
According to the most correct narrations,
Although some take it to 12,
And four men,
According to the most correct narration,
Some people say five,
Whatever it was,
It's a similar figure,
They had left and it is reported,
Ibn Hisham makes mention of the fact,
That Uthman ibn Mad'un was made their leader,
They left towards the sea,
And Quraysh began their journey behind them,
They sent some people,
Go and track these people down,
But Quraysh did not manage to even go,
Anywhere near before they could get there,
These people were on their boat,
And they were on the way,
And they had arrived then in Abyssinia,
And they remained there for a little period of time,
From amongst them was Mus'ab ibn Umayr,
Radhiallahu anhu,
And from amongst them was
Uthman ibn Affan,
Radhiallahu anhu,
We ask Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala,
To grant us goodness,
So they had gone,
When they went,
Here in Makkatul Mukarrama,
Something very very powerful happened,
What happened?
The Prophet salallahu alayhi wasalam,
One day was near the Kaaba,
And one narration says close to Safa,
So being close to Safa,
Which is also not too far from the Kaaba,
He was worshipping Allah,
And Abu Jahl came to him,
And beat him up and swore him,
And now as I told you,
Family members would always stand up,
At that time no one really noticed,
But Hamza ibn Abdul Muttalib,
Was the uncle of Muhammad salallahu alayhi wasalam,
He was out hunting,
When he got back from his journey from hunting,
Someone told him,
Do you know what Abu Jahl did to your nephew?
Gave him a good hiding,
He made him bleed according to one narration,
And another narration says he swore him,
Whatever it was, he was abused,
So Hamza ibn Abdul Muttalib went with his bow and arrow,
And he struck Abu Jahl,
And he says,
أَتَشْتُمُهُ وَأَنَ عَلَى دِينِهِ أَقُولُ مَا يَقُولُ
That was a powerful statement,
The people were shocked,
They used to sit around the Kaaba,
Waiting and listening and talking,
They had little groups and cliques that they used to sit around,
And they heard Hamza saying,
Are you abusing this nephew of mine,
When I follow his religion,
And I say exactly what he says,
Subhanallah,
That was the first declaration of Hamza ibn Abdul Muttalib,
The Muslims became so happy,
They were so happy because he was a powerful man,
And this was a victory,
So look,
One of the victories granted by Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala,
After the occasion of the abuse of Muhammad salallahu alayhi wa sallam,
By Abu Jahl,
Who was one of the arch enemies of Islam,
This is why we always say,
رُبَّ ضَارَّةِ النَافِعَةِ
Today we read a verse,
وَيَمْكُرُونَ وَيَمْكُرُ اللَّهُ
وَاللَّهُ خَيْرٌ مَا كِرِينَ
They plot,
And Allah plans and plots,
And Allah is the best of planners and plotters,
You will never ever be able to plot against Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala,
He always wins.
So now what has happened?
Hamza ibn Abdul Muttalib,
He used to start,
Meaning he went to Muhammad salallahu alayhi wa sallam,
And he started learning the religion,
Let's listen very carefully,
He started learning this religion,
And they used to gather in the house of Al-Arqam ibn Abu Al-Arqam,
Who was a Mahzoumi,
And the clan of Mahzoum,
They had a bit of a problem with these Banu Hashim,
They had a bit of a problem with these people,
And what they did is,
They had set the flag of war at one stage against them,
So Banu Hashim was a little bit worried whenever it came to Banu Mahzoum,
And they would never ever imagine,
That a person from Banu Mahzoum who was only in his teens,
Would have accepted this faith and opened his doors for them to come in,
They quietly used to go to the house of Al-Arqam ibn Abu Al-Arqam,
Very silently learned this religion.
For your information to this day,
There are some countries where Muslims are persecuted,
They cannot learn their deen unless they do so privately,
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us goodness,
Some of these countries are ruled by Muslims,
So-called Muslims, may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala save us.
So this was happening at the time of Muhammad salallahu alayhi wa sallam,
And Rasulullah salallahu alayhi wa sallam realized that this is the power of Allah,
We are starting to grow in number,
And he made a dua,
He says Allahumma a'izzal Islam bi ahadil umarain,
O Allah, grant strength to Islam by the acceptance of Islam,
Of some of these powerful people,
One of the two Umars,
One known as Umar ibn Al-Khattab,
The other one known as Amr ibn Hisham,
The enemy of Allah,
Imagine he had just abused Muhammad salallahu alayhi wa sallam,
And now the hands are coming up to say,
O Allah, this man is so strong,
If this energy and this strength was used in the right direction,
It would come to so much good use,
But because it is being used in the bad direction,
Look at the quality of leadership,
A leader is he who looks at his enemies,
And sees the power of the enemies,
And thinks to himself,
If we can get all this power to be used on our side,
We perhaps would become a force to be reckoned with,
Subhanallah,
This was Muhammad salallahu alayhi wa sallam,
He says O Allah,
If that man who is doing so much harm,
He's so powerful, they fear him,
If he can come into Islam,
Imagine what would happen,
So many people would accept Islam,
Sometimes my brothers and sisters,
Allah has put you in a position,
That if you start dressing properly,
Another 30-40 people start dressing properly,
They're watching you,
You're like the role model,
The queen of teens,
Allah protect us,
They're all watching you,
You wear this, they wear that,
You wear that, they wear this,
So why don't we seize this opportunity?
Abu Jahal did not,
And Abu Jahal would not,
But when it came to Omar ibn Al-Khattab r.a,
Listen to what happened,
He came out one morning,
He was fed up,
Every day I'm hearing the same story,
This man causing problems,
He's swearing our gods,
He's saying don't worship the idols,
He wants to divert us from the religion of our forefathers,
How can I allow this to continue,
I'm a strong man,
I am ibn Al-Khattab,
Let me go out and finish him once and for all.
He had similar thinking to that of Abu Jahal,
But they feared him,
Because he was much more powerful
In terms of physical strength,
Omar ibn Al-Khattab r.a was a solid man,
No one dare tread his path,
Cross his path,
So as he came out with his sword,
And you could see the intent,
When a man comes out of his home,
It was not so big,
It was a small area,
But he walked out of his home with his sword,
And he was met by one of the sahabah r.a,
Where are you going?
He says I'm going to sort Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam out,
Want to kill him off,
That's it,
Finish,
We won't have a problem after today in Quraysh,
The problem will be sorted,
So this man thought to himself,
Let me give this man a piece of advice,
You want to start there,
Start with your family,
Do you know your sister Fatima bint Al-Khattab,
She has accepted Islam,
She is following him,
Why don't you start with her?
He says good idea,
And he started walking in the direction of,
His brother-in-law's place,
Saeed bint Zubair,
Saeed bint Zayid,
Who was married to his sister Fatima bint Al-Khattab,
And he knocks on the door,
They had according to one narration,
They were learning some Quran from a little parchment,
That they had had,
Because as we know,
There was no paper at the time,
But they used to write on skins and little logs,
And little pieces of wood and parchments and so on,
And they had a little bit of this,
And they were learning it according to one narration,
Khabbab bint Al-Arad was teaching them,
And what happened is,
They were indoors,
They heard this bang on the door,
They immediately hid Khabbab,
Go and hide,
You're not supposed to be here,
What are you doing here?
And when they opened the door,
They hid those pages as well,
He came in and started beating them up,
Immediately,
Started beating them,
How can you accept Muhammad,
You must disbelieve in Muhammad,
You must this, you are that,
You are traitors, you are tyrants,
You have disgraced us,
You are people like this and like that,
My own family,
And he's beating, beating,
And suddenly his sister began to bleed,
When that blood came on the hands of Umar ibn Al-Khattab r.a.,
Something clicked,
This is my sister man,
I'm supposed to be looking after her,
Here's her blood,
How can this have happened?
He says, okay,
You know what,
Pause for a moment,
What were you people doing?
I want to know,
So they were trying to avoid the question and so on,
And after his insistence,
They said, okay,
We were learning a few words
From what Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam had brought,
Now there was a rumor in Makkah,
To say that Muhammad has come with a religion
Where so many rules and regulations,
He's telling you that women need to be dressed appropriately
And you should respect your women,
You cannot inherit women,
They must be given inheritance,
You need to do this, you need to do that,
You are not allowed to do this,
Not allowed to do that,
So many rules and regulations,
So it just makes life difficult,
Islam is a religion that just makes life difficult,
Up to today,
There are Muslims who think
That Islam has too many rules and regulations,
So that's why it's difficult,
It's not difficult,
Listen to why Allah has done that,
So Umar ibn Al-Khattab radiallahu anhu
Was one of those who knew that rumor,
And he looks at his sister,
I want to see those pages,
They said, look,
You want to see what it is,
You first need to cleanse,
They made him cleanse,
And they took out these pages,
Do you know what,
A man who came out to kill Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam,
He saw these pages,
He read not more than four verses,
He began to cry,
What were these verses,
The opening verses of surah Taha,
Taha
Ma anzalna alayka al qur'an li tashqa
Illa tathkiratan liman yakhsha
Tanzeelan mimman khalaqal arda
Wa as-samawati al ulaa
Taha
No one knows the meaning of those two letters,
Indeed, your Lord has not revealed the Quran to you
For it to be a source of your distress,
It is only but a reminder for those who are truthful,
For those who are humble,
For those who are fearful,
For those who have khashya in them,
For those who have that sense of God consciousness in them,
It is a revelation from the one who created the skies and the earth,
Umar ibn Al-Khattab was moved already,
He's never seen verses of this,
It had the answer to a question that he had at the back of his mind,
And at the same time his sister is there,
These are pure verses,
He senses the purity,
Take me to Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam,
I want to go to him,
You want to go to him?
Well, they noticed now softened heart,
Immediately they took him to Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam,
And as he walked,
He was told to follow,
He followed and they went out to whose house?
Al-Arqam ibn Abi Al-Arqam radiallahu anhu,
One of these maqzoom boys,
And who was in the house?
Hamza ibn Abdul Muttalib was a senior person at the time,
He was in this house as the uncle of Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam,
He was the most powerful up to that time,
So when this man came to the door,
And the people saw that this man has come to the door,
Of the house of Al-Arqam ibn Abi Al-Arqam,
Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam is inside,
They knew he had made a dua,
That O Allah strengthen Islam,
And they knew there's nothing impossible here,
But they were worried,
So Hamza ibn Abdul Muttalib says,
Let him in,
This is Umar,
...
Let him come in,
If Allah intends goodness from him,
He will accept Islam,
And if this man intends any harm,
Ya Allah make it easy for us to overcome him,
We can overcome him with his own sword,
He had his sword,
And as he came in,
It is reported that the Prophet sallallahu alaihi wasallam held his clothing,
And held it and says,
What brings you here?
He says,
...
I have come to bear witness that there is none worthy of worship besides Allah,
And that you are indeed the messenger of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala,
Allahu Akbar,
When they heard the messenger saying Allahu Akbar,
They knew that Umar ibn Al-Khattab had entered the fold of Islam,
They all began to say Allahu Akbar,
I have a point I want to raise here,
Umar ibn Al-Khattab was an enemy of Islam,
He read a few verses of the Quran which changed his life,
We are Muslims,
We read the Quran cover to cover,
Khatmah after khatmah,
And still it has not moved us,
Why?
What is the problem?
Allahu Akbar,
Where are our hearts?
One, two verses moved people who were mountains in enmity,
And made them mountains of love,
We,
What has happened to us?
We are Muslim,
Come on,
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala move us,
We know and I know of kuffar,
Just believers who have read the Quran and turned to Islam,
And we know of Muslims who read the Quran,
But still don't turn to the laws of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala,
May Allah forgive our shortcomings,
May He protect us from hypocrisy,
May He give us a turning point,
So this was the Islam of Umar ibn Al-Khattab radiallahu anhu,
Rumor spread,
Do you know what happened?
One narration says Umar ibn Al-Khattab radiallahu anhu asks,
Who is the person in Quraish who spreads rumors the fastest?
Allahu Akbar,
Imagine how brave this man is,
Others didn't want to know,
Didn't want the people to know they accepted Islam,
Umar ibn Al-Khattab radiallahu anhu comes and says,
Who is the man in Quraish who has a name of spreading gossip like wildfire?
They gave him a name,
Do you want to know the name?
Jamil ibn Ma'mar Al-Jumahi,
They say that man,
So he went to Jamil,
He tells him,
You know what,
I have accepted Islam and I am a Muslim,
Jamil started running,
Running where?
He ran to the Kaaba,
He stood on top,
Right on one of the hillocks,
He says,
Hey,
Ibn Al-Khattab has accepted Islam,
He has renamed from the religion of our forefathers,
And everyone was shocked,
That's what Umar wanted,
And on this side Umar ibn Al-Khattab radiallahu anhu tells Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam,
According to one narration,
He was the 40th person to accept Islam,
And perhaps the 40th man,
Allah knows best,
He says,
Oh messenger,
Alasna ala al-haq,
Aren't we on the right path?
He says,
Yes we are,
Okay,
Let's get up,
And we will read our Salah from today in the Haram,
In a group,
Why must we duck and dive and go to someone's house,
And then we go to the Kaaba,
Or singularly,
And we want to go to this place in the outskirts,
Let's go,
Allahu Akbar,
When the Prophet made a dua,
Ya Allah,
Strengthen Islam through the acceptance of Islam of one of these two people,
The man came into the fold within moments,
Within a short space of time,
It is reported few days after Hamza,
Ibn Abdul Muttalib radiallahu anhu,
This happened,
And when he came,
Look at the strength,
What happened,
They made two lines of people,
20 in this line,
20 in the other,
According to some narrations,
Perhaps the figure might not be that accurate,
But Hamza Ibn Abdul Muttalib was standing at the front of one of them,
And Umar Ibn Al-Khattab radiallahu anhu,
The front of the other,
They marched on to the Kaaba,
The Kaaba,
They went into this Haram,
And remember that time it wasn't what it is today,
It was just a Kaaba,
And a little vicinity around,
They used to sit around,
Quraish used to sit in little groups,
They used to talk,
And they used to chat,
This is why it's an insult for us,
To come to the house of Allah,
And have little groups inside or outside and chat,
That's wrong,
You come to the house of Allah not to chat,
You come in order to worship Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala,
It's about time we learned that,
Yes, if you have something to say out of respect,
But the Kuffar of Quraish used to use the vicinity of the Kaaba,
To sit and chat,
And to boast and to brag about what happened this day and that day,
And sit and drink alcohol,
We sit outside the masjid and smoke cigarettes,
And we sit and chat up to late at night,
And we were the ones who were complaining about two minutes early,
That Taraweeh did not finish,
So that's why now we're sitting outside for 20 minutes,
Allah protect us,
Where is our brains gone sometimes,
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala open our doors,
May He grant us a lesson from these mushrik of Makkah,
And may He open really the doors of mercy upon us,
And the doors of understanding,
So these people were sitting,
They witnessed Umar ibn Al-Khattab radiallahu anhu walk,
They were looking at each other,
They can't say anything,
No words to utter,
They seen Hamza ibn Abdul Muttalib,
Rumor began to do its rounds,
Soon news got to Habasha,
News got to Abyssinia,
The day the Muslims have accepted,
Meaning the people of Quraish are starting to accept Islam,
So these people started returning from Abyssinia,
Three months they had just gone in,
This was the first Hijra,
The first migration to Abyssinia,
Within three months they began to come back,
Because they heard this rumour,
That Quraish started accepting Islam,
How did they hear it?
They heard it because of the acceptance of some of these strong people,
And they had gone because of persecution,
Who wants to spend time away from their families,
Away from where they grew up,
Away from where they were born and so on,
Subhanallah,
So when they came back,
They noticed they were not allowed to enter Makkah,
Except one of two conditions,
Either quietly hiding,
They came in,
No one knew,
Or someone had to come and lay a guarantee,
And this was common at the time of Rasulullah SAW,
Even the pre-Islamic era,
The guarantee,
How it was is,
A strong man from the people of Quraish,
Would guarantee that,
Look, this man let him come in on my guarantee,
No harm do you,
Meaning you should not harm him,
And he will not engage in X, Y and Z,
And that was like a guarantee,
So some of them entered in that way,
And some of them came quietly,
But something else happened,
These mushriks of Quraish,
They decided we need to fix the Muslims,
They're starting to become so powerful,
So they decided to go to the Jewish clans around,
Some of the Jewish people,
And ask them,
How do we deal with this man?
So they said, very simple,
If you want to know whether he is a prophet or not,
You ask him three questions,
If he can answer you, he's a prophet,
If he cannot answer you, he's not a prophet,
What are the three questions?
They say the first,
Ask him about some youth of a long time ago,
What a question,
Someone comes to you,
Tell me about some youth of a long time ago,
Second question,
Ask him about a man who went,
Who traveled from the east to the west,
And he was powerful,
A man of a long time ago,
Ask him,
What type of a question?
The third question,
Ask him about the soul and how it works,
So the Quraish were excited,
They thought this man is never going to come with an answer,
They told Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam,
We have three questions for you,
You answer them, we accept,
You don't answer them, don't accept,
What are the questions?
So when they said the questions,
He said, I will give you the response tomorrow,
And he went back waiting for revelation,
Revelation did not come,
They came, what happened?
He said, tomorrow, revelation did not come,
Tomorrow, revelation did not come,
15 days went by,
And Quraish came to him and told him,
What is it?
15 days have gone by,
You haven't yet come,
And Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam was saddened,
He was making dua to Allah,
Ya Allah send me revelation with the response,
And 15 days later the revelation came down,
Why did it delay?
Simple reason,
Because Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam did not say,
Inshallah.
So Allah says in Surah al-Kahf,
ولا تقولن لشيء إني فاعل ذلك غدا إلا أن يشاء الله
Don't ever say you are going to do something tomorrow,
Without adding the statement,
If Allah wills with it.
So if you say,
I'm going to do this tomorrow,
Say, Inshallah,
Which means if Allah wills,
As they say,
God willing in the English language,
We say if Allah wills,
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us that lesson.
So when revelation came,
The response of all three questions came,
One was Surah al-Kahf,
The whole Surah named after the people of the cave,
Those were the youth of a long time ago,
The seven of them according to some narrations,
And Allah makes mention of it in Surah al-Kahf,
إِنَّهُمْ فِتَّيَةٌ آمَنُوا بِرَبِّهِمْ وَزِدْنَاهُمْ هُدَاءٌ
They were the youth who believed in their Rabb,
And we increased them in guidance,
And Allah gives the story,
Beautiful story,
Surah al-Kahf,
We mentioned it last year when we spoke of the stories of the prophets,
And when we spoke of the sleeper caves and so on,
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us a lesson.
Secondly,
The man who traveled from the east to the west,
The powerful man,
He was Dhul-Qarnayn,
قَالُوا يَذَلْقَرْنَيْنِ
Also in Surah al-Kahf towards the end,
Where Allah makes mention of Dhul-Qarnayn,
He traveled from here to there,
This is what he did,
And this is what happened,
He had a meeting with Ya'juj and Ma'juj,
Where he entrapped them and so on,
So all this was made mention of,
Quraysh was gobsmacked.
The third question,
وَيَسْأَلُونَكَ عَنِ الْرُوحِ
قُلِ الْرُوحُ مِنْ أَمْلِ رَبِّهِ
وَمَا أُوْتِيتُمْ مِنَ الْعِلْمِ إِلَّا قَلِيلًا
They are asking you about the soul and how it operates,
Tell them the soul is by the instruction of Allah,
And He has not given you knowledge except but a little.
That is exactly what the Jewish people found in their books,
In terms of a response when it came to the soul.
So they knew this man is a messenger,
Still they did not accept.
And the people of Quraysh,
They still did not accept.
Look at this,
They asking questions,
When the questions are answered,
They still don't want to take it.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala not make us from those who break our promises.
Now the kuffar of Makkah were left with one option,
They went to Abu Talib,
They said Abu Talib,
Now it's too much,
We need your nephew,
You need to stop protecting him,
And this guarantee of yours,
You need to withdraw it.
We are making you the following offer,
We can give you blood money of how many people you want,
Not just one,
Give him to us, we execute him.
He said no, I'm not interested.
Imagine blood money is always one for one.
They said we give you how many you like,
Say it, you want blood money of 10 people we give you,
But give us this one man,
He said no.
Then they said okay, we make you another offer,
Take any one of our children from the highest of families,
Give us your nephew.
You can keep that child and give him to us.
He says are you people mad, are you crazy?
You want me to take one of your sons to look after him,
So he can grow nicely,
And you want to take my nephew in order to kill him,
Doesn't make sense, not at all, foolish.
He says I'm not going to agree with that.
So then they said okay,
We're not going to have any luck with this Abu Talib.
Now they gathered,
They gathered around and they decided amongst the tribes,
Let us sign a document,
We must sign a document as unlettered as they were,
They decided to put pen on paper,
In the sense they decided to write something.
What did they write?
They drew up a treaty to say,
These families of Banu al-Muttalib and Banu Hashim,
Who are Muslim,
We are going to expel them from our cities,
Meaning from our little suburb that we are living in right now,
This part of Makkah,
They can go out into the outskirts,
And we will not deal with them,
We will not buy from them and we will not sell to them,
We will not marry in them and we will not allow them to marry in us,
And we will not provide them anything and we won't accept anything from them,
We will never sign treaties with them and we don't want them to sign anything with us,
We will not mix with them and we don't want them to mix with us,
We will not sit with them and we don't want them to sit with us,
We will not talk to them and we don't want them to talk to us.
We will not enter their houses and we don't want them to enter our houses.
Complete sanctions.
Imagine.
Against who?
Against believers.
People who believed in one Allah.
People who had the direct help of the Almighty.
But this was all the plan of the Almighty.
Later on, the Muslims always speak about how these days were.
There were people who hated Islam at that particular time,
who accepted it later on and they say,
how foolish we were at that time.
How Allah blessed us to hold us a little bit.
Had Allah punished us whilst we were still in that time,
we perhaps would have never ever believed.
Now it's us and our offspring and children and children's children.
May Allah grant us steadfastness.
So this thing, they wrote it.
And what did they do?
They hung it in the Kaaba, inside the Kaaba.
They hung it.
And everyone abided by it.
So no one spoke to these people.
And what happened?
Because they used to take Muhammad SAW to the outskirts
in order to protect him from being killed by the people of Quraysh.
Because had he been killed by the people of Quraysh,
there would have been massive disaster there.
There would have been an outbreak of war.
So the Muslims and Abu Talib
and some of the family members of Muhammad SAW,
they used to ensure that he sleeps in a certain place
where nobody would be able to reach him.
So what they did, the people of Quraysh,
they decided, right, you're staying there.
You're not coming here.
The Muslims were surrounded.
They weren't allowed to come out.
No one was allowed to go in with food,
with any form of goodness.
The one who was exempt from this,
although he belonged to the family of Muhammad SAW,
was Abu Lahab.
Because he was an enemy.
He was one of those who used to go around
telling the people, watch out,
don't even give them food.
What happened?
They had their provisions,
their food depleted.
When it depleted, one year passed.
One year passed, what happened?
Another year passed.
There was no food.
No one gave them food.
No one dealt with them.
Nothing happened.
Wallahi.
The Prophet SAW began to eat leaves of the tree
together with his companions.
And together with some
who were not even Muslim,
who happened to be there
because it was their family, a few.
And no one battered an island from Quraysh.
They're watching these people suffering
so much so that they began to cook the skins
or roast the skins of the animals.
They had eaten up all their animals.
Roasting the skins of their animals
and chewing on the inside of that skin,
Allahu Akbar, to try and extract
whatever goodness they could have had.
And sucking on the roots of some of these shrubs
that were there in the desert
in order to get water.
They had suffered for three years
in what was known as Shi'a bi Abi Talib.
The name of this place, like a valley,
just in the outskirts of where these people were,
where the Muslims were now surrounded.
And what had happened?
Allahu Akbar.
Muhammad SAW allowed his companions,
instructed them,
you can now go to Habashah.
Go back to Abyssinia.
You can go back to Abyssinia.
InshaAllah, Allah will grant you a place there.
Allah will grant you safety.
There is a ruler there who is just.
He is an African ruler
who is a Christian man who is just.
He will not oppress you.
He will treat you well and he will welcome you
and he will look after you.
His name is Ashamah.
He is the Negus of Abyssinia,
where Ethiopia is today.
So it is reported that the second batch of people
silently left.
And this time, it was more difficult to leave.
From amongst them, it is reported there were 83 men.
If we count Ammar ibn Yasir, 83.
And if we don't count him, 82.
There is a difference of opinion
as to whether he went or did not go.
And 18 women, they had left.
And the Amir or the person who was made their leader
was Ja'far ibn Abi Talib r.a.
And they had gone.
They arrived in Abyssinia.
Meanwhile, the Muslims are suffering
in this sanctioned area
where they were completely surrounded.
Nothing goes in, nothing comes out.
No one talks to them.
Nothing happens.
So when Ja'far ibn Abi Talib r.a.
got with his group of men and women
to Najashi in Africa,
this was the first place
that Islam got a base besides Arabia.
Before Medina,
already Islam had arrived in Africa.
Subhanallah.
Islam had arrived in Africa
first before everywhere else.
And this was just a few years in,
approximately five years after the prophethood.
Five years after the prophethood,
it already arrived in Africa.
And Ja'far ibn Abi Talib r.a.
tells Najashi,
we are people, we've been oppressed.
We have a Nabi amongst us,
a messenger who has come with the word of Allah.
He has instructed us to do this, to do that,
to stop worshiping idols,
to stop oppressing our women,
to stop cheating and deceiving,
to look after our neighbors,
to honor our treaties
and to fulfill our promises.
And he has instructed us to pray
and to fast and to give alms to the poor and so on.
And he has done this and that.
And our people began to persecute us.
They wanted us to go back
to the religion of our forefathers.
They want us.
We were a nation who used to bury our daughters alive.
We were a nation who used to engage
in so much mockery of our own women folk.
We used to buy and sell and trade in human beings.
And we used to do this and that.
And so many different things.
And we used to worship idols completely
until Allah sent in our midst a messenger
who came with a book.
And he came with a revelation.
Revelation.
And he instructed us to do this and this.
Najashi heard.
And he told him,
you are welcome in this land
and you will be protected here
and you may worship Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala.
But hang on.
The people of Quraysh,
they had already sent their men,
Amr ibn al-As.
He was sent with Abdullah ibn Abi Rabiah.
And some narrations make mention of
Amr ibn al-Waleed.
They were sent to Najashi as well.
They got to Najashi.
They said, wait, these people are traitors.
We are here in order to get back certain young people
who have ran away
and they are being sought after in Quraysh.
And our people have sent us here.
And we come here to trade a lot.
And we need these people back
because they have been swearing our gods
and they have turned away
from the religion of our forefathers
and, and, and.
And Najashi was so upset.
So upset.
Very angry.
Because they had brought him gifts.
They gave him lots of gifts.
They were wealthy people, Quraysh.
They brought him gifts and so on.
And he heard from Ja'far ibn Abi Talib.
And he says,
these people are correct.
They will stay here
and you will not be able to do anything.
You need to return.
The following morning,
these two decided,
let's try and strike a chord.
So they go to Najashi in the morning
and they say,
you know what they say about Jesus?
May peace be upon him.
Isa.
They know this man is a Christian.
So they say,
these people blaspheme Jesus.
So Najashi calls Ja'far ibn Abi Talib.
He says,
what do you say about Jesus?
we say whatever Allah has instructed us.
Whatever our messenger has instructed us.
We say that he was
the miracle of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
granted to the Virgin Mary.
And he was born without a father.
And Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala gave him life.
He spoke to people when he was a baby.
And he declared that he is Abdullah wa Rasuluhu.
He is none other than a messenger
of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
and the prophet of his.
And that's what we say.
And we stop there.
So Najashi looks and he says,
read me some verses
from what you have.
So they started reading the verses
Kaaf Ha Ya Ain Saal.
Allahu Akbar.
Dhikru rahmati rabbika abdahu zakariya
Ith naada rabbahu nida'an khafiyya
Najashi, just like Omar ibn Al-Khattab
radiallahu anhu began to cry.
So much so that verses were revealed
telling Muhammad Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam
that they are people
who are leaders of the Christians
whom when they heard the Quran,
they began to weep.
Wa ida sami'u ma'unzil ila al-rasul
Tara a'iyunahum tafeedu min al-dam'i
Mimma arafu min al-haqqu
Yaquluna rabbana amanna
Fakhtubna ma'ashshahideen
When they heard the verses of the Quran
being read, their eyes became filled with tears.
The tears began to roll down
because of what they knew was the truth.
And they said, oh our Rabb, we believe.
So write us from amongst those
who have borne witness.
We ask Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
to grant us goodness.
Insha'Allah, tomorrow we will go through
what happened at this particular time
with Ja'far ibn Abi Talib
and with Amr ibn al-Aas radiallahu anhu.
And by the will of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala,
we will get to see the victory of the Muslims
and what had happened.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us goodness
until we meet again.
Wa salallahu wa sallam wa baraka ala nabina Muhammad.
As-salamu alaikum wa rahmatullahi wa barakatuh.
Alif Laam Mim
Allah, la ilaha illa Huwa Al-Hijj Al-Qayyum.